app/docs/md/learn/starter-project/structure.md, before:

---
title: Structure
---

The Enhance starter project is set up to enable you to create dynamic multi-page applications with as little friction as possible. It comes preconfigured with everything you need to work with file-based routing and standards-based components.

```
app
├── api ............... data routes
│   └── index.mjs
├── elements .......... custom element pure functions
│   └── my-header.mjs
└── pages ............. file-based routing
    └── index.html
```

## Pages
The pages folder enables file-based routing. To add a route just add an HTML file. The name of the file will be the URL you view it at. Meaning `app/pages/about.html` will be viewed at `/about`.

<doc-callout level="none" mark="📃">

**[Read more about pages here →](/docs/learn/starter-project/pages)**

</doc-callout>

## Elements
The elements folder is where you keep your [single-file components](/docs/learn/concepts/single-file-components). These are custom element templates that get rendered server side and set-up your HTML page for progressive enhancement.

Elements must be [named](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/custom-elements.html#prod-potentialcustomelementname) with one or more words separated by a dash `my-header.mjs` which corresponds to the tag name you author in your HTML pages `<my-header></my-header>`.

<doc-callout level="none" mark="🔥">

**[Read more about elements here →](/docs/learn/starter-project/elements)**

</doc-callout>

## API

The `api` folder is preconfigured to expose data to your file-based routes. Meaning the file `app/api/index.mjs` will automatically pass state to `app/pages/index.mjs` as well as expose an endpoint for standard REST verbs like `get` and `post`

<doc-callout level="none" mark="🪄">

**[Read more about `api` routes here →](/docs/learn/starter-project/api)**

</doc-callout>

Commit message:

Base docs for browser pattern

app/docs/md/learn/starter-project/structure.md, after:

---
title: Structure
---

The Enhance starter project is set up to enable you to create dynamic multi-page applications with as little friction as possible. It comes preconfigured with everything you need to work with file-based routing and standards-based components.

```
app
├── api ............... data routes
│   └── index.mjs
├── browser ........... browser JavaScript
│   └── index.mjs
├── elements .......... custom element pure functions
│   └── my-header.mjs
└── pages ............. file-based routing
    └── index.html
```

## Pages
The pages folder enables file-based routing. To add a route just add an HTML file. The name of the file will be the URL you view it at. Meaning `app/pages/about.html` will be viewed at `/about`.

<doc-callout level="none" mark="📃">

**[Read more about pages here →](/docs/learn/starter-project/pages)**

</doc-callout>

## Elements
The elements folder is where you keep your [single-file components](/docs/learn/concepts/single-file-components). These are custom element templates that get rendered server side and set-up your HTML page for progressive enhancement.

Elements must be [named](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/custom-elements.html#prod-potentialcustomelementname) with one or more words separated by a dash `my-header.mjs` which corresponds to the tag name you author in your HTML pages `<my-header></my-header>`.

<doc-callout level="none" mark="🔥">

**[Read more about elements here →](/docs/learn/starter-project/elements)**

</doc-callout>

## API

The `api` folder is preconfigured to expose data to your file-based routes. Meaning the file `app/api/index.mjs` will automatically pass state to `app/pages/index.mjs` as well as expose an endpoint for standard REST verbs like `get` and `post`.

<doc-callout level="none" mark="🪄">

**[Read more about `api` routes here →](/docs/learn/starter-project/api)**

</doc-callout>

## Browser

The `browser` folder is preconfigured to output a bundle to be used when progressively enhancing your pages in the browser. Files in `app/browser` are bundled to `/public/pages/`. Meaning `app/browser/index.mjs` will be bundled with any imported dependencies to `/public/pages/index.mjs` and available to be loaded by a script tag at `/_public/pages/index.mjs`.

<doc-callout level="none" mark="🦄">

**[Read more about `browser` routes here →](/docs/learn/starter-project/browser)**

</doc-callout>
